docs: Adding Space Shooter Step 6 (#2936)
flame-engine/flame: doc/tutorials/space_shooter/step_6.md

# Enemies and Bullets collision

> Right, we real close to a playable game, we have enemies, we have the ability to shoot bullets
> at them! We need now to do something when a bullet hits an enemy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Right, we are really close to a playable game, we have enemies and we have the ability to shoot bullets
at them! We now need to do something when a bullet hits an enemy.
```

> Flame provides a collision system out of the box, which we will use to implement a logic which when

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flame provides a collision detection system out of the box, which we will use to implement our logic that will handle when
```

> a bullet and an enemy comes into contact, both are removed!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a bullet and an enemy comes into contact. The result will be that both are removed!
```

> First thing we need to do is to let our `FlameGame` that we want collisions between components to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First we need to let our `FlameGame` know that we want collisions between components to
```

> be checked. In order to do so, simply add the `HasCollisionDetection` missing to the declaration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be checked. In order to do so, simply add the `HasCollisionDetection` mixin to the declaration
```

of the game class:

```dart
class SpaceShooterGame extends FlameGame
    with PanDetector, HasCollisionDetection {
    // ...
}
```

> With that, flame now will start to check if components collided with each other. Next we need to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With that, Flame now will start to check if components has collided with each other. Next we need to
```

identify which components can cause collisions.

> In our case those are the `Bullet` and `Enemy` components and we need to add a hitbox to them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our case those are the `Bullet` and `Enemy` components and we need to add hitboxes to them.
```

> A hitbox is nothing more than the dimension which define the area of a component that can hit
> other objects. Flame offers a collection of classes to define a hitbox, the simplest of them is
> the `RectangleHitbox`, which like the name implies will make a rectangular area the component's
> hitbox.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A hitbox is nothing more than a defined part of the component's area that can hit
other objects. Flame offers a collection of classes to define a hitbox, the simplest of them is
the `RectangleHitbox`, which like the name implies will make a rectangular area as the component's
hitbox.
```

> Hitboxes are also components, so, in order to add them to our components we can simply add
> the following line on both the `Bullet` and `Enemy` `onLoad` method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hitboxes are also components, so in order to add them to our components we can simply add
the following line on both the `Bullet`'s and `Enemy`'s `onLoad` method:
```

```dart
add(RectangleHitbox());
```

From this point on, Flame will take care of checking the collision between those two components,

> we need now to do something when they came in contact.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
we now need to do something when they come in contact.
```

We can start that by receiving the collision events in one of the classes. I will choose the

> `Enemy` class to be the one responsible to listening to events, since in theory, there will
> mostly likely have fewer enemies than bullets, so we can less checking if we keep that logic
> on the enemies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Enemy` class to be the one responsible for listening to events, since in theory, there will
mostly likely be fewer enemies than bullets, so we can do less checking if we keep that logic
in the enemy class.
```

> To listen collision event we need to simply add the `CollisionCallbacks` mixin to a component,
> by doing so we will be able to override some methods like: `onCollisionStart`, `onCollisionEnd`
> and so on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To listen to collision events we need to add the `CollisionCallbacks` mixin to the component.
By doing so we will be able to override some methods like `onCollisionStart` and `onCollisionEnd`.
```

So let's do that and make a few changes to the `Enemy` class:

```dart
class Enemy extends SpriteAnimationComponent
    with HasGameReference<SpaceShooterGame>, CollisionCallbacks {

  // Other methods omitted

  @override
  void onCollisionStart(
    Set<Vector2> intersectionPoints,
    PositionComponent other,
  ) {
    super.onCollisionStart(intersectionPoints, other);

    if (other is Bullet) {
      removeFromParent();
      other.removeFromParent();
    }
  }
}
```

> As you can see, we simply added the mixin to the class, overridden the `onCollisionStart` method,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you can see, we added the mixin to the class, overrode the `onCollisionStart` method,
```

> where we check with the component that collided with us was a `Bullet` and if it was, then

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where we check whether the component that collided with us was a `Bullet` and if it was, then
```

we remove both the current `Enemy` instance and the `Bullet`.

If you run the game now you will finally be able to defeat the enemies crawling down the screen!

To add some final touches, let's add some explosion animations and add more action to the game!

First, let's create the explosion class:

```dart
class Explosion extends SpriteAnimationComponent
    with HasGameReference<SpaceShooterGame> {
  Explosion({
    super.position,
  }) : super(size: Vector2.all(150));

  @override
  Future<void> onLoad() async {
    await super.onLoad();

    animation = await game.loadSpriteAnimation(
      'explosion.png',
      SpriteAnimationData.sequenced(
        amount: 6,
        stepTime: .1,
        textureSize: Vector2.all(32),
        loop: false,
      ),
    );

    anchor = Anchor.center;

>     removeOnFinish = true;

Reviewer: Constructor

  }
}
```

> Not much new in it, the biggest difference on it compared to the other animations components is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is not much new in it, the biggest difference compared to the other animation components is
```

> that we are passing `loop: false` in the `SpriteAnimationData.sequenced` constructor and we are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that we are passing `loop: false` in the `SpriteAnimationData.sequenced` constructor and that we are
```

> setting `removeOnFinish = true;`. We do that so when the animation is finished, it will
> automatically be removed from the game!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
setting `removeOnFinish = true;`. We do that so that when the animation is finished, it will
automatically be removed from the game!
```

> And to finalize, we make a small change in the `onCollisionStart` method from the `Enemy` class
> in order to add the explosion to the game:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And finally, we make a small change in the `onCollisionStart` method from the `Enemy` class
in order to add the explosion to the game:
```

```dart
  @override
  void onCollisionStart(
    Set<Vector2> intersectionPoints,
    PositionComponent other,
  ) {
    super.onCollisionStart(intersectionPoints, other);

    if (other is Bullet) {
      removeFromParent();
      other.removeFromParent();
      game.add(Explosion(position: position));
    }
  }
```

> And that is it! We finally a game which provides all the minimum necessary elements for a space
> shooter, from here you can use what you learned to build more features in the game like making
> the player suffer damage if it clashes with and enemy, or make the enemy shoot back, or maybe
> both?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And that is it! We finally have a game which provides all the minimum necessary elements for a space
shooter, from here you can use what you learned to build more features in the game like making
the player suffer damage if it clashes with an enemy, or make the enemies shoot back, or maybe
both?
```
